So next, we're going to discuss a service called the AWS Global Accelerator.
And according to AWS,
this is a networking service that sends your user's traffic through
Amazon Web Services' global network infrastructure,
improving your internet user performance by up to 60%.
Now let's talk for a minute about how that's possible.
So, first of all,
Global Accelerator and one of the ways it's different from a solution
like CloudFront is that it does utilize IP addresses,
and in this case it still uses edge locations like CloudFront,
but it's actually using it from IP resolution instead of DNS.
So, once the user reaches the edge locations,
instead of routing traffic with the user request through the public internet,
once they reach those edge locations, no matter where you're resolving it to,
it's going to route that traffic through the AWS
network and not the public internet.
And it can route requests to many different AWS resources,
and that includes things like a network load balancer,
or NLB, an application load balancer, or ALB,
or even just EC2 instances,
or maybe you've just assigned an elastic IP address to
some type of AWS infrastructure, you could use that as well.
Now let's talk about the different performance improvements
that are possible with Global Accelerator.
First of all,
the distance between that user request and the initial endpoint is going
to be minimized because it's using edge locations.
Now,
this is also true when you're using something like CloudFront. Traffic
is going to be optimized by using the AWS network instead of the public
internet with that IP‑based resolution.
And what this does is it does result in improvement in that first byte latency,
the jitter, and the throughput.
So overall, the request is going to be more efficient,
and it does also provides superior fault tolerance
by not relying on DNS resolution.
And let me speak to this for just a minute.
So with most solutions,
what can happen is is that we use a hostname, and that
hostname, the IP address, might get cached.
So if you're using something like Route 53 for failover,
what happens is is that if the client remembers an old IP
address and it needs to fail over to a new region,
for example, in some cases that switchover might not be seamless.
But here, because of Global Accelerator,
we are using IP‑based resolution so it is able to
make that transition seamlessly.
So let's talk about when you would consider AWS Global Accelerator,
especially over a solution like CloudFront,
because they are similar.
First of all, if you're using a non‑HTTP protocol, things like UDP,
MQTT or VOIP, so you might be using UDP in a gaming context or
in a video/audio type context, with MQTT, you might be
leveraging this for IoT‑based devices. And then VOIP if you're
doing, again, internet telephony.
Now, if we look at another use case,
and that's going to be if you have a situation that requires a
static IP and not a DNS‑based resolution,
then in this case you're going to need to use Global Accelerator.
Also, if you need instant failover with the highest level of high availability,
then in this case you would certainly want to take a look at the AWS Global Accelerator.